# Pod lifecycle
## Pod phase
- `Pending`:	The Pod has been accepted by the Kubernetes cluster, but one or more of the containers has not been set up and made ready to run. This includes time a Pod spends waiting to be scheduled as well as the time spent downloading container images over the network.
- `Running`:	The Pod has been bound to a node, and all of the containers have been created. At least one container is still running, or is in the process of starting or restarting.
- `Succeeded`:	All containers in the Pod have terminated in success, and will not be restarted.
- `Failed`:	All containers in the Pod have terminated, and at least one container has terminated in failure. That is, the container either exited with non-zero status or was terminated by the system.
- `Unknown`	For some reason the state of the Pod could not be obtained. This phase typically occurs due to an error in communicating with the node where the Pod should be running.

# Pod conditions 

Condition complements pod status. Array of true/false falue. A Pod has a PodStatus, which has an array of PodConditions through which the Pod has or has not passed. Kubelet manages the following PodConditions:

- PodScheduled: the Pod has been scheduled to a node.
- PodHasNetwork: (alpha feature; must be enabled explicitly) the Pod sandbox has been successfully created and networking configured.
- ContainersReady: all containers in the Pod are ready.
- Initialized: all init containers have completed successfully.
- Ready: the Pod is able to serve requests and should be added to the load balancing pools of all matching Services.
- * Ready is a pod condition not a pod status.

# Container States
While looking into Kubernetes Pod States, we also need to know about Container States. Once a Node assigns a Pod by the scheduler, the kubelet begins creating containers for that Pod using a container runtime. Waiting, Running, and Terminated are the three possible container states.

- Waiting: A container is Waiting if it is not in the Running or Terminated states. A container in the Waiting state is still performing the operations necessary for it to complete startup.
- Running: The Running status indicates that a container is running normally.
- Terminated: A container in the Terminated state started execution and then either finished or failed for some reason.

- [VVI] The restartPolicy applies to all containers in the Pod

# Container probe:
- initialDelaySeconds: 5
- periodSeconds: 5
- exec
```
exec:
    command:
    - cat
    - /tmp/healthy
```
- kubectl describe pod output indicates that no liveness probes have failed yet
- httpGet
```
httpGet:
        path: /healthz
        port: 8080
        httpHeaders:
        - name: Custom-Header
          value: Awesome
```
- tcpSocket
```
tcpSocket:
        port: 8080
```
- grpc
```
grpc:
        port: 2379
```
- we can use a named port
```
httpGet:
    path: /healthz
    port: liveness-port
```
- Protect slow starting containers with startup probes (failureThreshold * periodSeconds seconds wait time total)
```
failureThreshold: 1
periodSeconds: 10
```
- Configure Probes :
    - initialDelaySeconds: Number of seconds after the container has started before startup, liveness or readiness probes are initiated. Defaults to 0 seconds. Minimum value is 0.
    - periodSeconds: How often (in seconds) to perform the probe. Default to 10 seconds. Minimum value is 1.
    - timeoutSeconds: Number of seconds after which the probe times out. Defaults to 1 second. Minimum value is 1.
    - successThreshold: Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. Defaults to 1. Must be 1 for liveness and startup Probes. Minimum value is 1.
    - failureThreshold: When a probe fails, Kubernetes will try failureThreshold times before giving up. Giving up in case of liveness probe means restarting the container. In case of readiness probe the Pod will be marked Unready. Defaults to 3. Minimum value is 1.

- HTTP probes have additional fields that can be set on httpGet:
    - host: Host name to connect to, defaults to the pod IP. You probably want to set "Host" in httpHeaders instead.
    - scheme: Scheme to use for connecting to the host (HTTP or HTTPS). Defaults to HTTP.
    - path: Path to access on the HTTP server. Defaults to /.
    - httpHeaders: Custom headers to set in the request. HTTP allows repeated headers.
    ```
    - name: Accept
        value: application/json
    ```
    If you want to remove a header set in empty
    ```
    httpHeaders:
      - name: Accept
        value: ""
    ```
    - port: Name or number of the port to access on the container. Number must be in the range 1 to 65535.
    - terminationGracePeriodSeconds: Kubernetes waits this amount of time before killing the pod. Ig yhe pod’s terminationGracePeriodSeconds is set to 5. If you create and then delete this pod, you’ll see that its containers are terminated within 5s of receiving the TERM signal.`https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubernetes-best-practices-terminating-with-grace`, default 30 seconds.
    - In 1.25 and beyond, users can specify a probe-level terminationGracePeriodSeconds as part of the probe specification. When both a pod- and probe-level terminationGracePeriodSeconds are set, the kubelet will use the probe-level value.
    - Probe-level terminationGracePeriodSeconds cannot be set for readiness probes. It will be rejected by the API server.

