# Basic
- A service is(can be think of as) a process that receives the request from the client and distributed them in `homogenous` set of pods. Since, it's a process, it listens to a port. 
    - port: The port the service listens to
    - targetPort: The port of a pod it sends the traffic to.
    - nodePort: A service dispatches additional process in each node to (literally or figuratively depends on internal implementation) listen to a port on that node, this is to externalize a service.
    - kubectl create service clusterip myapp --tcp=80:80 [VVI] `<port>:<targetPort>`
    - kubectl create service nodeport NAME [--tcp=port:targetPort]  `--node-port=0: Port used to expose the service on each node in a cluster`
    - kubectl create service nodeport mynpsvc --node-port=1234 --tcp=80:443 --dry-run=client -o yaml
    - If you set the type field to NodePort, the Kubernetes control plane allocates a port from a range specified by --service-node-port-range flag (default: 30000-32767)
- `kubectl run` has a flag --expose that creates a service for the pod.
- deployment has to be expose explicitely with command `kubectl expose`
    - kubectl expose pod
    - kubectl expose rs
    - kubectl expose deployment
# Network policy:
- kubectl get networkpolicy
- kubectl describe networkpolicy NAME_OF_THE_POLICY
- Isolated vs Non Isolated pod:
    - Any pod that is not selected by any network policy is an isolated pod. Open to all incoming and outgoing traffic(Network policy don't apply)
    - If a pod is selected by at least one network policy its called non isolated pod. If a pod is selected by at least one network policy then it is only open to traffic that is explicitely allowed by a network policy that selects the pod. 
    - There are two sorts of isolation for a pod: isolation for egress, and isolation for ingress. 
    - By default, a pod is non-isolated for egress; all outbound connections are allowed. A pod is isolated for egress if there is any NetworkPolicy that both selects the pod and has "Egress" in its policyTypes; we say that such a policy applies to the pod for egress. When a pod is isolated for egress, the only allowed connections from the pod are those allowed by the egress list of some NetworkPolicy that applies to the pod for egress. The effects of those egress lists combine additively.

    - By default, a pod is non-isolated for ingress; all inbound connections are allowed. A pod is isolated for ingress if there is any NetworkPolicy that both selects the pod and has "Ingress" in its policyTypes; we say that such a policy applies to the pod for ingress. When a pod is isolated for ingress, the only allowed connections into the pod are those from the pod's node and those allowed by the ingress list of some NetworkPolicy that applies to the pod for ingress. The effects of those ingress lists combine additively.

    - Network policies do not conflict; they are additive. If any policy or policies apply to a given pod for a given direction, the connections allowed in that direction from that pod is the union of what the applicable policies allow. Thus, order of evaluation does not affect the policy result.

    - For a connection from a source pod to a destination pod to be allowed, both the egress policy on the source pod and the ingress policy on the destination pod need to allow the connection. If either side does not allow the connection, it will not happen.

    - Example
        - Run a nginx pod named ingtest with image nginx that is isolated for ingress from the pods that has `label=test=netpol`. It means create a pod ingtest using image nginx and make sure it receives traffic only from the pods that has label label=test=netpol. Egress from ingtest is allowed to anywhere on any port.
    - Comment: When we define network policy we define ingres isolated pod or egress isolated pod or both.
    - Practial will be in the practice.
    ```
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: test-network-policy
  namespace: default  ------------------------------------------------------------------> select pods from namespace=default
spec:
  podSelector: --------------------------------------------------------------------------> AND labels = ? *** To isolate pods we need to consider namespace and label of the pods***
    matchLabels:
      role: db
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress ---------------------------------------------------------------------------> Allow ingress for the selected pods based on the list of sources defined in the ingres.from, if this is empty it means allow ingress to the selected pods from nowhere. if ingress is not defined it means empty ingress list, ingress: = - {} means wildcard match, everything in the universe and beyond is in the list.
    - Egress ---------------------------------------------------------------------------> Same goes to egress, if destination is empty that means disallow all outbound traffic.
  ingress:
    - from: 
        - ipBlock:
            cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
            except:
              - 172.17.1.0/24
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              project: myproject
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              role: frontend
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 6379
  egress:
    - to:
        - ipBlock:
            cidr: 10.0.0.0/24
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 5978
    ```
    - When in doubt, use kubectl describe to see how Kubernetes has interpreted the policy. [VVI]
    - [VVI] to veriy, in a single from clause, a single podSelector selects pods within the namnepsace , but the podSelector in OR(namespaceSelector,podSelector) relation matches any namespace!!!
# Ingress
    - kubectl get ingress
    - kubectl describe ingress NAME