- Enable ingress in minikube using `kubectl apply -f minikube-ingress-enabler.yml` from the root of this repo.
- kubectl create deployment cricket --image=nginx --port=80 --dry-run=client -o yaml
- kubectl apply -f ingress-lab-microservices.yml
- kubectl expose deploy cricket --dry-run=client -o yaml `let the kubernetes handle selector and all`
- kubectl apply -f ingress-lab-microservices.yml
- kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://cricket -T 2
- kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://football -T 2
- kubectl get ingress `Get the ip of the ingress - 10.103.58.182`
- kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm -it --restart=Never -- wget -O- http://10.103.58.182/cricket -T 2
- kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm -it --restart=Never -- wget -O- http://10.103.58.182/football -T 2
- Iportant things to memorize
    - /$2
    - /path(/|$)(.*)
- Super important
    - without `kubernetes.io/ingress.class:  nginx` annotation no ip assigned to ingress `kubectl get ingress -o wide` **This is legacy**
    ```
kubectl get ingress -o wide
NAME           CLASS    HOSTS   ADDRESS   PORTS   AGE
microservice   <none>   *                 80      40s
    ```

    - Instead of using `kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx` go with `ingressClassName: nginx`
    
    ```
    kubectl get ingress                            
    NAME           CLASS   HOSTS   ADDRESS         PORTS   AGE
    microservice   nginx   *       10.103.58.182   80      10s
    ```
- Ingress is namespace specific. If the different namespace tries to map the same path it will throw error like this - 
```
k apply -f 045.yml 
Error from server (BadRequest): error when creating "045.yml": admission webhook "validate.nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io" denied the request: host "_" and path "/" is already defined in ingress default/product-a-dev
```
- k get ingressclass - check if the ingress controller is installed in the cluster.
- Ingress Fan Out : Same host but dfferent path goes to different service.
- Name based virtual hosting: different hostname goes to different services.
- A backend is a combination of Service and port names as described in the Service doc or a custom resource backend by way of a CRD.
- *A Resource backend is an ObjectRef to another Kubernetes resource within the same namespace as the Ingress object.* A Resource is a mutually exclusive setting with Service, and will fail validation if both are specified. A common usage for a Resource backend is to ingress data to an object storage backend with static assets.