# Content 01
https://github.com/dgkanatsios/CKAD-exercises/blob/main/a.core_concepts.md

- Create a namespace called 'mynamespace' and a pod with image nginx called nginx on this namespace
    - kubectl create ns mynamespace
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx -n mynamespace
- Create the pod that was just described using YAML
    kubectl run nginx --image=nginx -n mynamespace --dry-run=client -o yaml  
    ```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  labels:
    run: nginx
  name: nginx
  namespace: mynamespace
spec:
  containers:
  - image: nginx
    name: nginx
    resources: {}
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  restartPolicy: Always
status: {}
    ```
- Create a busybox pod (using kubectl command) that runs the command "env". Run it and see the output
    - kubectl run bb --image=busybox --restart=Never -- env
    - kubectl logs bb
- `001` Create a busybox pod (using YAML) that runs the command "env". Run it and see the output
    ```
    kubectl run bb1 --image=busybox -o yaml --dry-run=client --restart=Never -- env
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  labels:
    run: bb1
  name: bb1
spec:
  containers:
  - args:
    - env
    image: busybox
    name: bb1
    resources: {}
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  restartPolicy: Never
status: {}
    ```
- Get the YAML for a new namespace called 'myns' without creating it
    ```
create ns myns --dry-run=client -o yaml 
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: myns
spec: {}
status: {}
    ```
- Get the YAML for a new ResourceQuota called 'myrq' with hard limits of 1 CPU, 1G memory and 2 pods without creating it
    - `002` [My solution] kubectl create quota test --hard=cpu=1,memory=1Gi,pods=2 --namespace=mynamespace --dry-run=client -o yaml > 002.yml
    ```
    kubectl create quota test --hard=cpu=1,memory=1Gi,pods=2 --namespace=myspace --dry-run=client -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: test
  namespace: myspace
spec:
  hard:
    cpu: "1"
    memory: 1Gi
    pods: "2"
status: {}
    ```

    - kubectl get quota --namespace=mynamespace
    - kubectl describe quota test --namespace=mynamespace

- Some more note on the resource quota:
    - Resource quota can have scope, using scope we can limit which pods within a namespace the resource quota applies to. https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#pod-priority using this we can define priority class and we can use that further in resource quota to target those pods.
    ```
    - apiVersion: v1
  kind: ResourceQuota
  metadata:
    name: pods-high
  spec:
    hard:
      cpu: "1000"
      memory: 200Gi
      pods: "10"
    scopeSelector:
      matchExpressions:
      - operator : In
        scopeName: PriorityClass
        values: ["high"]
    ```
- Get pods on all namespaces
    - kubectl get pods -A
- Create a pod with image nginx called nginx and expose traffic on port 80
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --port=80
- Change pod's image to nginx:1.7.1. Observe that the container will be restarted as soon as the image gets pulled
    - kubectl edit pod nginx
    - kubectl describe pods nginx | grep -i 'image'
    - k8s % kubectl describe pods nginx | grep -i 'Events' -A 100
- Get nginx pod's ip created in previous step, use a temp busybox image to wget its '/'
    - kubectl run tmp --image=busybox --restart=Never -it --rm -- wget -O- http://10.244.1.6/
- `003`Get pod's YAML
    - kubectl run tmp --image=busybox --restart=Never -o yaml --dry-run=client -- wget -O- http://10.244.1.6/ > 003.yml
- Get information about the pod, including details about potential issues (e.g. pod hasn't started)
    - kubectl describe pod nginx
- Get pod logs
    - kubectl logs nginx
- If pod crashed and restarted, get logs about the previous instance
    - kubectl logs nginx -p 
- Execute a simple shell on the nginx pod
    - exec nginx -it -- sh
- Create a busybox pod that echoes 'hello world' and then exits
    - kubectl run tmp --image=busybox --restart=Never -- echo 'hello world'
    - kubectl logs tmp
    - kubectl delete pod tmp
- Do the same, but have the pod deleted automatically when it's completed
    - kubectl run tmp --image=busybox --restart=Never -it --rm -- echo 'hello world'
- Create an nginx pod and set an env value as 'var1=val1'. Check the env value existence within the pod
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --env=var1=val1
    - kubectl exec nginx -- env | grep 'var1'
    - kubectl exec -it nginx -- sh -c 'echo $var1' [authors solution, my solution is idotic]
    - kubectl delete pod nginx

# Content 02
https://github.com/bmuschko/ckad-prep/blob/master/1-core-concepts.md

- Create the namespace ckad-prep.
    - kubectl create ns ckad-prep
- In the namespace ckad-prep create a new Pod named `mypod` (I missed it and named it nginx) with the image nginx:2.3.5. Expose the port 80.
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx:2.3.5 --port=80
- Identify the issue with creating the container. Write down the root cause of issue in a file named pod-error.txt.
    - kubectl describe pod nginx | grep 'Events' -A 100 >  pod-error.txt
    - kubectl get events >> pod-error.txt
- Change the image of the Pod to nginx:1.15.12.
    - kubectl edit pod nginx `and then change image to nginx:1.15.12 using vim`
- List the Pod and ensure that the container is running.
    - kubectl get pods
- Log into the container and run the ls command. Write down the output. Log out of the container.
    - kubectl exec nginx -it -- sh
    - ls
    - exit
- Retrieve the IP address of the Pod mypod.
    - kubectl get pods -o wide
    - kubectl describe pod nginx | grep -i 'ip'
- Run a temporary Pod using the image busybox, shell into it and run a wget command against the nginx Pod using port 80.
    - kubectl run bb1 --rm --restart=Never --image=busybox -it -- wget -O- http://10.244.1.15/
- Render the logs of Pod mypod.
    - kubectl logs nginxs
- Delete the Pod and the namespace.
    - kubectl delete ns ckad-prep
    - kubectl delete pod nginx

**Be careful on the question, what parameters are already given e.g pod name.**

# Content 03
- Delete the pod you just created without any delay (force delete)
    - kubectl delete po nginx --grace-period=0 --force # VVI Practice this some more.
- Change the Image version back to 1.17.1 for the pod you just updated and observe the changes
    - kubectl set image pod/nginx nginx=nginx:1.17.1
    - kubectl set image pod nginx nginx=nginx:1.17.1
    - kubectl set image pod POD_NAME CONTAINER_NAME=IMAGE_NAME:TAG
- Create an nginx pod and list the pod with different levels of verbosity

    // create a pod
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --restart=Never --port=80
    // List the pod with different verbosity
    - kubectl get po nginx --v=7
    - kubectl get po nginx --v=8
    - kubectl get po nginx --v=9
- List all the pods sorted by name
    - kubectl get pods --sort-by=.metadata.name
- List all the pods sorted by created timestamp
    - kubectl get pods--sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp