# Content 01
- Create a configmap named `lconfig` with values foo=lala,foo2=lolo
    - kubectl create cm lconfig --from-literal=foo=lala --from-literal=foo2=lolo
- Display its values
    - kubectl get cm lconfig -o yaml
- Create and display a configmap from a file (named fconfig). Create the file with `echo -e "foo3=lili\nfoo4=lele" > config.txt`
    - kubectl create cm fconfig --from-file=config.txt
    - kubectl get cm fconfig -o yaml 
- Create and display a configmap from a .env file named econfig. Create the file with the command. `echo -e "var1=val1\n# this is a comment\n\nvar2=val2\n#anothercomment" > config.env`
    - kubectl create cm econfig --from-env-file=config.env
    - kubectl get cm econfig -o yaml

- Create and display a configmap from a file, giving the key 'special'. Create the file with. `echo -e "var3=val3\nvar4=val4" > config4.txt`
    - kubectl create cm special --from-file=special=config4.txt
    - kubectl get cm special -o yaml

- Create a configMap called 'options' with the value var5=val5. Create a new nginx pod that loads the value from variable 'var5' in an env variable called 'option'
    - kubectl create cm options --from-literal=var5=val5
    - `004.yml` kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --dry-run=client -o yaml > 004.yml
    - kubectl apply -f 004.yml
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'echo $option'
    - kubectl exec nginx2 -- env | grep var

- Create a configMap 'anotherone' with values 'var6=val6', 'var7=val7'. Load this configMap as env variables into a new nginx pod
    - kubectl create cm anotherone --from-literal=var6=val6 --from-literal=var7=val7
    - kubectl run nginx2 --image=nginx --dry-run -o yaml > 005.yml          
    - vi 005.yml
    - kubectl get pods

- Create a configMap 'cmvolume' with values 'var8=val8', 'var9=val9'. Load this as a volume inside an nginx pod on path '/etc/lala'. Create the pod and 'ls' into the '/etc/lala' directory. 
    - kubectl create cm cmvolume --from-literal=var8=val8 --from-literal=var9=val9
    - `006.yml` kubectl apply -f 006.yml 
    -  kubectl exec nginx3 -- ls /etc/lala

- Create the YAML for an nginx pod that runs with the user ID 101. No need to create the pod
    - `007.yml`

- Create the YAML for an nginx pod that has the capabilities "NET_ADMIN", "SYS_TIME" added to its single container
    - `008.yml`


- Create an nginx pod with requests cpu=100m,memory=256Mi and limits cpu=200m,memory=512Mi
    - `009.yml`

- Create a secret called mysecret with the values password=mypass
    - kubectl create secret generic mysecret --from-literal=password=mypass

- Create a secret called mysecret2 that gets key/value from a file. Create a file called username with the value admin: `echo -n admin > username`
    - kubectl create secret generic mysecret2 --from-file=username
- Get the value of mysecret2
    - kubectl get secret mysecret2 -o yaml 
- Create an nginx pod that mounts the secret mysecret2 in a volume on path /etc/foo
    - `010.yml`
    - kubectl apply -f 010.yml 
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'ls /etc/foo'
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'cat /etc/foo/username'

- Delete the pod you just created and mount the variable 'username' from secret mysecret2 onto a new nginx pod in env variable called 'USERNAME'
    - kubectl delete pod nginx
    - `011.yml` kubectl apply -f 011.yml *incorrect answer though, be careful in the real exam*
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'echo $username'  *incorrect answer though, be careful in the real exam*
    - `011_precise.yml` kubectl apply -f 011_precise.yml
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'echo $USERNAME'


- See all the service accounts of the cluster in all namespaces
    - kubectl get sa -A

- Create a new serviceaccount called 'myuser'
    - kubectl create sa myuser
    
- Create an nginx pod that uses 'myuser' as a service account
    - `012.yml` kubectl apply -f 012.yml `WRONG ANSWER, for some reason documentation does not have example :( , check 012_correct.yml`
    - kubectl delete sa myuser
    - kubectl delete nginx
    - For some reason service account is not working, even the example, something might have changed in the k8s API. need to deep dive during CKA exam.

# Content 02
- Create a new file named config.txt with the following environment variables as key/value pairs on each line.DB_URL equates to localhost:3306.DB_USERNAME equates to postgres.Create a new ConfigMap named db-config from that file.
    - kubectl create cm db-config --from-env-file=config2.txt
    - kubectl get cm db-config -o yaml
- Create a Pod named backend that uses the environment variables from the ConfigMap and runs the container with the image nginx.
    - `013.yml`
- Shell into the Pod and print out the created environment variables. You should find DB_URL and DB_USERNAME with their appropriate values.
    - kubectl exec nginx -- sh -c 'echo DB_USERNAME = $DB_USERNAME , DB_URL = $DB_URL'
- Create a new Secret named db-credentials with the key/value pair db-password=passwd.
    - kubectl create secret generic db-credentials --from-literal=db-password=passwd
    - kubectl get secret db-credentials -o yaml
- Create a Pod named backend that defines uses the Secret as environment variable named DB_PASSWORD and runs the container with the image nginx.
    - kubectl delete pod nginx
    - kubectl apply -f 014.yml 
- Shell into the Pod and print out the created environment variables. You should find DB_PASSWORD variable.
    - kubectl exec backend -- sh -c 'echo DB_PASSWORD=$DB_PASSWORD'
    - kubectl delete pod backend
- Create a Pod named secured that uses the image nginx for a single container. Mount an emptyDir volume to the directory /data/app.Files created on the volume should use the filesystem group ID 3000.
    - `015.yml` kubectl apply -f 015.yml
- Get a shell to the running container and create a new file named logs.txt in the directory /data/app. List the contents of the directory and write them down.
    - kubectl exec secured -it -- sh
    - cd /data/app
    - touch logs.txt
    - ls -la
    ```
total 8
drwxrwsrwx 2 root 3000 4096 Oct 23 01:54 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 root root 4096 Oct 23 01:54 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 root 3000    0 Oct 23 01:54 logs.txt
    ```
- Create a resource quota named apps under the namespace rq-demo using the following YAML definition in the file 016.yaml.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  name: apps
  namespace: rq-demo
spec:
  hard:
    pods: "2"
    requests.cpu: "2"
    requests.memory: 500m
```
    - kubectl create ns rq-demo
    - `016.yml` kubectl apply -f 016.yml
- Create a new Pod that exceeds the limits of the resource quota requirements. Write down the error message.
    -  `017.yml ` kubectl apply -f 017.yml 
    - Error from server (Forbidden): error when creating "017.yml": pods "nginx" is forbidden: failed quota: apps: must specify requests.cpu for: nginx; requests.memory for: nginx
    ```
    Requests and Limits
Requests and limits are the mechanisms Kubernetes uses to control resources such as CPU and memory. Requests are what the container is guaranteed to get. If a container requests a resource, Kubernetes will only schedule it on a node that can give it that resource. Limits, on the other hand, make sure a container never goes above a certain value. The container is only allowed to go up to the limit, and then it is restricted.
It is important to remember that the limit can never be lower than the request. If you try this, Kubernetes will throw an error and won’t let you run the container.
    ```
- Change the request limits to fulfill the requirements to ensure that the Pod could be created successfully. Write down the output of the command that renders the used amount of resources for the namespace.
    - `017_scale_down.yml` kubectl apply -f 017_scale_down.yml
    -  kubectl describe resourcequota app -n rq-demo
    ```
    Name:            apps
Namespace:       rq-demo
Resource         Used  Hard
--------         ----  ----
pods             1     2
requests.cpu     500m  2
requests.memory  250m  500m
    ```
- Create a new service account named backend-team.
    - kubectl create sa backend-team
- Print out the token for the service account in YAML format.
    - [VVI] - don't know how to do it
- Create a Pod named backend that uses the image nginx and the identity backend-team for running processes.
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --dry-run=client -o yaml > 018.yml
    - `018.yml` kubectl apply -f 018.yml
- Get a shell to the running container and print out the token of the service account. `the service account is not mouting properly, but if it was mounted then we would do this! Following solution is based on the default token`
    - kubectl describe pod nginx | grep -i 'mounts' -A 1 `outputs -  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount`
    - kubectl exec nginx -it -- sh
    - ls /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
    - cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
# Content 03
    - nothing new.