# Content 01
## Multi-container Pods (10%)
- Create a Pod with two containers, both with image busybox and command "echo hello; sleep 3600". Connect to the second container and run 'ls'
    - `019.yml` kubectl apply -f 019.yml 
    - kubectl exec bb1 -c bb1c1 -it -- sh -c 'cat echo.txt' `hello container 01`
    - kubectl exec bb1 -c bb1c2 -it -- sh -c 'cat echo.txt' `hello container 02`
- Create a pod with an nginx container exposed on port 80. Add a busybox init container which downloads a page using "wget -O /work-dir/index.html http://neverssl.com/online". Make a volume of type emptyDir and mount it in both containers. For the nginx container, mount it on "/usr/share/nginx/html" and for the initcontainer, mount it on "/work-dir". When done, get the IP of the created pod and create a busybox pod and run "wget -O- IP"
    - `020.yml` kubectl apply -f 020.yml 
    - kubectl get pods -o wide `10.244.1.72`
    - kubectl run tmp --rm --restart=Never -it --image=busybox -- wget -O- http://10.244.1.72/
## POD Design

# Content 02
## Multi-container Pods (10%)
- Implementing the Adapter Pattern
    - The adapter pattern helps with providing a simplified, homogenized view of an application running within a container. For example, we could stand up another container that unifies the log output of the application container. As a result, other monitoring tools can rely on a standardized view of the log output without having to transform it into an expected format.

- Create a new Pod in a YAML file named adapter.yaml. The Pod declares two containers. The container app uses the image busybox and runs the command while true; do echo "$(date) | $(du -sh ~)" >> /var/logs/diskspace.txt; sleep 5; done;. The adapter container transformer uses the image busybox and runs the command sleep 20; while true; do while read LINE; do echo "$LINE" | cut -f2 -d"|" >> $(date +%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S)-transformed.txt; done < /var/logs/diskspace.txt; sleep 20; done; to strip the log output off the date for later consumption my a monitoring tool. Be aware that the logic does not handle corner cases (e.g. automatically deleting old entries) and would look different in production systems.
Before creating the Pod, define an emptyDir volume. Mount the volume in both containers with the path /var/logs.
Create the Pod, log into the container transformer. The current directory should continuously write a new file every 20 seconds.