`Multi-container pods - 10%`
# Content 01
https://github.com/dgkanatsios/CKAD-exercises/blob/main/b.multi_container_pods.md

- Create a Pod with two containers, both with image busybox and command "echo hello; sleep 3600". Connect to the second container and run 'ls'
    - `019.yml` kubectl apply -f 019.yml 
    - kubectl exec bb1 -c bb1c1 -it -- sh -c 'cat echo.txt' `hello container 01`
    - kubectl exec bb1 -c bb1c2 -it -- sh -c 'cat echo.txt' `hello container 02`
- Create a pod with an nginx container exposed on port 80. Add a busybox init container which downloads a page using "wget -O /work-dir/index.html http://neverssl.com/online". Make a volume of type emptyDir and mount it in both containers. For the nginx container, mount it on "/usr/share/nginx/html" and for the initcontainer, mount it on "/work-dir". When done, get the IP of the created pod and create a busybox pod and run "wget -O- IP"
    - `020.yml` kubectl apply -f 020.yml 
    - kubectl get pods -o wide `10.244.1.72`
    - kubectl run tmp --rm --restart=Never -it --image=busybox -- wget -O- http://10.244.1.72/

# Content 02
https://github.com/bmuschko/ckad-prep/blob/master/3-multi-container-pods.md

- Implementing the Adapter Pattern
    - The adapter pattern helps with providing a simplified, homogenized view of an application running within a container. For example, we could stand up another container that unifies the log output of the application container. As a result, other monitoring tools can rely on a standardized view of the log output without having to transform it into an expected format.

- Create a new Pod in a YAML file named adapter.yaml. The Pod declares two containers. The container app uses the image busybox and runs the command while true; do echo "$(date) | $(du -sh ~)" >> /var/logs/diskspace.txt; sleep 5; done;. The adapter container transformer uses the image busybox and runs the command sleep 20; while true; do while read LINE; do echo "$LINE" | cut -f2 -d"|" >> $(date +%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S)-transformed.txt; done < /var/logs/diskspace.txt; sleep 20; done; to strip the log output off the date for later consumption my a monitoring tool. Be aware that the logic does not handle corner cases (e.g. automatically deleting old entries) and would look different in production systems.
Before creating the Pod, define an emptyDir volume. Mount the volume in both containers with the path /var/logs.

- Create the Pod, log into the container transformer. The current directory should continuously write a new file every 20 seconds.
    - `021.yml` - kubectl apply -f 021.yml 
    - kubectl exec bb -c app -it -- sh -c 'cat /var/logs/diskspace.txt;'
    - kubectl exec bb -c transformer -it -- sh -c 'ls'

# Content 03
https://medium.com/bb-tutorials-and-thoughts/practice-enough-with-these-questions-for-the-ckad-exam-2f42d1228552
- [VVI] Show metrics of a multicontainer pod containers `and puts them into the file.log and verify -- ignored for bravity`
    - We can reuse `021.yml`
    - kubectl top pod bb --containers
    - kubectl top pod bb - `not this command , this will show only pods resource usage (consolidating each container usage)`
    ```           
NAME   CPU(cores)   MEMORY(bytes)   
bb     4m           0Mi 
    ```
    -  kubectl top pod bb --containers
    ```
POD   NAME          CPU(cores)   MEMORY(bytes)   
bb    app           1m           0Mi             
bb    transformer   3m           0Mi
    ```