# Practice
- Create a pod with label test=netpoltarget with container port = 80
    - create a namespace called `npol`. kubectl create ns network
    - kubectl -n network run nginx --image=nginx --port=80 --labels=test=netpoltarget
    - kubectl -n network get pods --show-labels
    - test connection from a temporary busybox pod.
    - kubectl -n network get pods -o wide
    - kubectl -n network run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://10.244.205.198 `The nginx pod is reachable from the temporary busybox pod with the same ns`
    - kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://10.244.205.198 `The nginx pod is reachable from the temporary busybox pod from a different ns`
    - apply network policy `explictely deny incoming traffic to all pods in the npol namespace`
    - kubectl apply -f 034.yml `deny ingress traffic to all pods in the default namespace`
    - kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- sh `test machine to check reachability to nginx in default ns and nginx in network ns`
    ```
kubectl get pods -o wide
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE    IP               NODE           NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
nginx   1/1     Running   0          4m6s   10.244.205.204   minikube-m02   <none>           <none>
kubectl get pods -n network -o wide
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP               NODE           NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
nginx   1/1     Running   0          48m   10.244.205.198   minikube-m02   <none>           <none>
wget -O- http://10.244.205.204 -T 2 [default namespace]
Connecting to 10.244.205.204 (10.244.205.204:80)
wget: download timed out

wget -O- http://10.244.205.198 -T 2 [network namespace works fine]
    ```

# Content 01:
- Create a pod with image nginx called nginx and expose its port 80
    - kubectl run nginx --image=nginx --port 80 --expose
- Confirm that ClusterIP has been created. Also check endpoints
    - kubectl get service nginx -o wide
```
NAME    TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE   SELECTOR
nginx   ClusterIP   10.108.199.46   <none>        80/TCP    46s   run=nginx
```
- Get service's ClusterIP, create a temp busybox pod and 'hit' that IP with wget
    - kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://10.108.199.46
- Convert the ClusterIP to NodePort for the same service and find the NodePort port. Hit service using Node's IP. Delete the service and the pod at the end.
    - kubectl apply -f 035.yml
    - kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it -- wget -O- http://10.108.199.46 -T 2 using service port
    - How to check nodeport on minikube!
- Create a deployment called foo using image 'nginx' (a simple server that returns hostname) and 3 replicas. Label it as 'app=foo'. Declare that containers in this pod will accept traffic on port 80 (do NOT create a service yet)
    - kubectl create deploy nginx --image=nginx --port=80 --replicas=3
    - kubectl label pod -l app app=foo --overwrite `don't do it, as soon as we change the label, the replicaset does not find them and spins up 3 more pods.`
    - kubectl delete pods -l=app=foo 
    - kubectl create deploy foo --image=nginx --port=80 --replicas=3 `will create pods with label app=foo, app and run are special labels` 
- Get the pod IPs. Create a temp busybox pod and try hitting them on port 80
    - for ip in '10.244.120.68' '10.244.205.220' '10.244.205.219'; do echo "kubectl run bb --image=busybox --rm --restart=Never -it --env=POD_IP=$ip -- wget -O- http://$ip -T 2" ; done
- Create a service that exposes the deployment on port 6262. Verify its existence, check the endpoints
    - kubectl expose deploy foo --port=6262 --target-port=80
- Create a temp busybox pod and connect via wget to foo service. Verify that each time there's a different hostname returned. Delete deployment and services to cleanup the cluster
    -  kubectl run bb --image=busybox --restart=Never --rm -it -- wget -O- http://foo:6262 -T 2
- Create an nginx deployment of 2 replicas, expose it via a ClusterIP service on port 80. Create a NetworkPolicy so that only pods with labels 'access: granted' can access the deployment and apply it
    - 